---
layout: page
published: true
permalink: /en
lang: en
title: ""
---

## A way to a better future

It is hard to know how to approach beggars. Is it good to give or not? Does it really make any long-term difference? Is this organized crime or genuine desperation?

The Bära-project is an attempt to create better job opportunities for people who today see begging as the only way out. With a simple business idea and product in combination with education, we hope to restore human dignity and help building a positive future.

## About the Bära bag

By standing up from the street and selling a product a person transitions from being a beggar to becoming a sales person with a job. Self esteem can be rebuilt, as well as motivation to fight for continous change.

To sell the Bära-Bag can be a way to take the first step up from the street.

### Where does the money go?

This is a relevant question and we believe in transparancy in everything we do.
We have developed a model that covers three perspectives: urgent, short term and long term work.

##### Urgent:
- The sales person purchases the bag for 70 SEK and resells it for 100 SEK.
- He/she keeps the difference that is 30% of total value.

After deduction of value-added tax, the remaining 56 SEK are divided equally between:

##### Short term:
- Original and printing cost for one bag is approximately 18 SEK.
- The remaining 10 SEK go to education of the sales person here in Sweden and administrations costs.

##### Long term:
• The money are put in a fund that is invested in the sales person's home village. Read more below "Our long term work".

### Education for the future

We offer a simple education about the sales role, what customer benefits are and how to handle the interaction with customers. The aim of the education is to ensure that the sales person will be able to carry out his/her job in a trustworthy and successful way.

Subjects like personal economy and savings will be covered and we discuss their dreams about the future and possibilities to make them come true. Furthermore we teach them some foundations (a few phrases) in the Swedish language.

The education is delivered by itzinya AB that textualizes and simplifies part of their Entrepreneurship Academy to better suit our target group. The Entrepreneurship Academy itzinya “it’s-in-you” is a social company with the ambition to create job opportunities for young people in the developing world.

### Our long-term work

In the long term we want to offer opportunities, for those who want to earn a living in their home country, by:

- Producing our products in their home countries and creating job opportunities that creates a more stable income for those who are exposed to poverty.
- Starting a non academic entrepreneurship education in conjunction with itzinya and local operators in their home countries. The academy will be operated by local entrepreneurs and will support the creation of new small companies.
- Those who have sold the Bära-bag have priority to the entrepreneurship education through scholarships and the money earmarked for long term work can also be used as start-up capital to realize their ideas.

This can add to the sense of **pride and motivation** for the sales people who are here temporarily since they indirecly are part of creating work for those at home. 

### Guarantee

Should we for some reason have to cancel the work, any surplus will go to other suitable long-term projects for the same group of people. 

## About the Project

The Bära Bag Team is made up of a group of students from Chalmers and Gothenburg School of Business together with a handfull of entrepreneurs.
Bära is a project in the form of a non-profit organization where all work as volunteers without salary. Transparency is important to us and we want people to know how we operate and why. Our values are founded on the belief that:

- all people have the same value
- all people have the same foundational ability to support themselves
- all people have the same responsibility to support themselves
- nobody shall have to beg when there are other options

### Does your company or organization want to support our work?

If you think what we do has potential and you want to support the Bära Project, contact us at [info@barakassen.se](mailto:info@barakassen.se). We would love to have a chat about different opportunities.

### Do you have ideas and suggestions?

We do not claim to have all the solutions. Let us do this together! Contact us with your ideas and help us move forward.
